Now that we've seen how to retrieve data from a database Let's see how we added in.
So you would use this for example if someone signing up to your website once they've signed up successfully
you're going to have their user name and password to your database so that they can log in later on
as well.
So we do this in a similar way to how we retrieved the data.
We start off with a query and then we're going to write some Majeski Well and that's going to insert
the data that we need.
So as before it's fairly straightforward I say well it's insert into.
So we're obviously inserting some data into a table and then the table that we want to insert into A
is uses and then we put the names of the fields that we want to insert values into and then we have
a pair of parentheses.
And inside these parentheses we're going to put the names of the fields that we want to include values
for.
So those two fields for us are email and password.
Or you can just leave them like that.
But it's a good habit to get into to surround them with those quotes.
That's essentially an acute accent.
And for me it's next to the Zed key on my keyboard.
It's not quite a quote but it's what we used to contain the names of fields in my school.
And we also use it to contain the names of tables if you want to.
Again that would work with or without but it is a good habit to get into.
And then we put the values that we want to have for them.
And again these are in parentheses.
But for values we use the normal single quites.
So I've already signed up to this.
So let's have Keston First of all the current UK as our next user.
So I'm putting her in single quites there and then let's give her a decent password.
That way she's much more secure than I am.
So that's how queery that's how you.
And then run that query.
We do it in the same way that we did before.
So my ask you well I underscore a query and then link and query.
All right.
That won't return anything in itself other than a success but we will be able to see in my admin that
it's been added.
So let's just save that and run it and the results will be exactly the same because this code that we've
got here only returns the first item.
We'll see how to return more than one item in the next video.
So let's jump back into HP my admin to see if this really has worked.
A quick way to get that if you know the IP address of your database is to start typing the IP address.
So for us it's 79 to 1 7 0 4 4 2 1 2 5 and then slash ph P my admin and then that will take you straight
to PH my admin and from there you can enter the username and password for the database itself.
And that will get you an OK so fingers crossed.
We now have a new item of data in our users table and there it is fantastic.
So let's just add one more item.
So let's put Tommy in here.
You can be at gmail dot com
and we'll give him probably the sort of password that he'll go for when he grows up.
So let's refresh.
That's And there we go.
So now we've got three items in our database.
What if we want to update some of these.
So say someone wants to change their e-mail address or change their password.
Well that's actually pretty straightforward as well.
So I'm just going to comment out that query to leave it in there but we don't want to add those.
Every time we run the script.
So let's have a new query.
And this is going to be an update query.
So say we want to update my e-mail address to something else.
Then we can have update and then the table name contained by the acute accent then.
So we want to update the users table and we want to set the email to and then say I changed my email
address to wrote Percival 80 at gmail dot com.
Now if I ran that query that would update the email address of all of these two or 80 at gmail dot com
which is something we obviously do not want to do.
And it's a very dangerous sort of a query to have because if you code it wrong you could lose all the
data in your database.
So we want to set a where instruction which limits which rows of the table will be updated.
So you can see my ID is 1 so we can limit that to where ID is equal to one that will only update the
users table for my particular way and what I like doing is something that is kind of an extra safety
net that whenever you are doing an update You should always put a limit at the end.
And what that does is simply limit the number of rows that it will update.
So if you're only expecting one user to be updated then put limit one at the end and that just saves
you from writing a piece of bad code or making a mistake which then updates the whole of your database
and loses you a bunch of data which is definitely something you want to avoid.
All right.
So let's have a look.
OK.
You can see that actually worked straight away because that first result that's returned.
Been changed from Rob Percival but how do you get to a possibility at gmail dot com if we have a look
in the database on page we might admit as well.
You can see that that's updated that quite is a mini challenge for you then can you change my password
to something rather more secure than that but instead of using the ID in the WHERE clause I'd like to
use my e-mail address airfreight.
All right.
How did you manage that.
So let's just get rid of all of this.
Obviously the first bit stays the same.
Update uses this time we want to set the password.
He will say and then let's just pick some random string that we get in single quotes of course and we
want to do that this time where e-mail is equal to a and then Rob Percival 80 at gmail dot com.
And because this is a string we need to put it in single quotes when we had I.D. was 1 1 is not a string
here it's stored as an integer.
So we didn't need quites but for a string you take.
And just to be safe we'll pop.
Limit 1 on the end
OK.
Let's take a look.
That's updated the password as well quite.
So that's how we insert an update data in our database.
In the next video we'll see how we can return more than one result from a query and also how we can
do more advanced queries that allow us to select particular columns from our database and to be more
fussy about the sort of uses that get selected as well.
See them.